
                   PUBLIC DOMAIN GREEK NEW TESTAMENT

          With variants identified and tagged for reference to
            source of transmission and schools of emphasis.



   - Textus Receptus
     - Stephens 1550 Textus Receptus
     - Scrivener 1894 Textus Receptus
   - Byzantine Majority
     - as identified by Von Soden and Hoskier, and utilized by Hodges &
       Farstad, Robinson & Pierpont. [these editions agree on 99.75
       percent of the Byzantine texts, and greater than 98 percent with
       the TR.]
   - Alexandrian
     - as identified by United Bible Society, 3rd ed., and utilized by
       modern translations such as the NIV and NASB.



                       PUBLIC DOMAIN DECLARATION

Jesus commanded in John 2:16,  "Do not make my Father's house a house of
merchandise" (Greek: "mˆ poieite ton oikon tou patros mou oikon
emporiou").  This Greek New Testament, with variant words identified and
tagged, is Public Domain and may be used freely and for any purpose. The
format of the files, as detailed later, is designed to provide readers
with the ability to view significant various readings at a glance and
determine the transmissional source of those variants, as well as the
emphasis applied by various scholars.  This format is ideally suited to
programmatic look-up and display.


                         TRANSLITERATION METHOD

The transliteration of the Greek is simple and follows that documented
in Strong's Dictionary.  It is as follows:

            Alpha    = a                 Nu       = n
            Beta     = b                 Xi       = x
            Gamma    = g                 Omicron  = o
            Delta    = d                 Pi       = p
            Epsilon  = e                 Rho      = r
            Zeta     = z                 Sigma    = s  (final included)
            Eta      = ˆ (ascii 136)     Tau      = t
            Theta    = th                Upsilon  = u
            Iota     = i                 Phi      = pf
            Kappa    = k                 Chi      = ch
            Lambda   = l                 Psi      = ps
            Mu       = m                 Omega    = “ (ascii 147)


If it is desirable to change this transliteration to something more
in keeping with a Greek typewriter, simply use any text editor and
perform the following global changes.

  Psi:   'ps' to 'q'
  Chi:   'ch' to 'c'
  Phi:   'ph' to 'f'
  Theta: 'th' to 'y'
  Omega: '“'  to 'w'
  Eta:   'ˆ'  to 'h'

Be sure to perform these changes in the *exact* order listed, otherwise
the wrong characters will be changed.  For instance, changing eta to 'h'
before theta to 'y', would cause tau eta to appear as theta, and this
would be erroneously changed to 'y'.  The above order has been tested
and works.


If representation of final sigma is desired, change the following.

         's '    to 'v '
         's[Hrt] to 'v[Hrt]'
         's]'    to 'v]'
         's>'    to 'v>'

The [Hrt] is for Word Perfect, and may be different depending on your
editor.  The idea is to get final sigma on blank delimted words, as well
as words at end of line.  Hence, the [Hrt].


                      ORTHOGRAPHIC CONSIDERATIONS

The orthographic methods utilized are those established by George Ricker
Berry in his edition of "The Interlinear Literal Translation of the
Greek New Testament" (New York: Hinds & Noble, 1897).  This method
follows Berry as stated in his "Introduction," p.ii [Greek modified to
current transliteration format]:

        we have...added the final -n to the third person
        singular and plural in -si; third singular in -e; in
        datives plural in -si &c.  For "out“" we have given
        "out“s."

This method is utilized solely for ease of pronunciation, and does not
change the meaning of the Greek text. Note also that Berry's method is
more in accord with the practice of the earliest Greek manuscripts than
modern structured grammars would suggest.

In the Majority book of the Revelation (alone) this method does not
consistently apply, due to specific data collation requirements.


                             VERSE NUMBERS

For ease of reference, the verse numbering scheme has been made to
conform closely to that found in most standard English versions of the
New Testament, following the Authorized (King James) Version of 1611.
Where considerate verse numbering differences occur, they are added to
the text in brackets.


             BREATHINGS, ACCENTS, AND DIACRITICAL MARKINGS

All breathings, accents, capitalization, punctuation, and diacritical
markings have been omitted.  These are primarily a product of modern
editorship and are lacking in ancient mss.


                      BOOK TITLES AND COLOPHONS

Book titles do not appear within the present files. The Greek closing
colophons to the epistles which appear in the English of the Authorized
Version have been placed in brackets [] wherever they occur in the
Stephens 1550 edition (only).



                         VARIANT TAGGING METHOD

The following tags have been applied to those words peculiar to one
stream of transmission, or scholarly group which emphasizes a particular
variant word.  Those words with no tag are do not differ in the various
printings of the Greek.

  t= Stephens 1550 Textus Receptus.

      The text used is George Ricker Berry's edition of "The Interlinear
      Literal Translation of the Greek New Testament."  This text is
      virtually identical to Erasmus 1516, Beza 1598, and the actual
      Textus Receptus: Elzevir 1633.  Berry states that "In the main
      they are one and the same; and [any] of them may be referred to as
      the Textus Receptus" (Berry, p.ii).

      These early printed Greek New Testaments closely parallel the text
      of the English King James Authorized Version of 1611, since that
      version was based closely upon Beza 1598, which differed little
      from its "Textus Receptus" predecessors. These Textus Receptus
      editions follow the Byzantine Majority mss., which was predominant
      during the period of manual copying of Greek New Testament
      manuscripts.

  s= Scrivener 1894 Textus Receptus

      The text used is "ˆ Kainˆ Diathˆkˆ: The New Testament.  The Greek
      Text underlying the English Authorised Version of 1611" (London:
      Trinitarian Bible Society, 1977).  This is an unchanged reprint of
      Scrivener's "The New Testament in the Original Greek according to
      the Text followed in the Authorised Version" (Cambridge:
      University Press, 1894, 1902).

      Scrivner attempted to reconstruct the Greek text underlying the
      English 1611 KJV for comparison to the 1881 English R.V. In those
      places where the KJV followed the Latin Vulgate (Joh 10:16),
      Scrivener inserted the greek reading, as opposed to
      back-translating the Latin to Greek--which would have produced a
      Greek word with no Greek mss. evidence.  Scrivner's work follows
      the Byzantine Majority texts, and in many places matches the
      modern Alexandrian based editions.

  b= Byzantine Majority

      The text is that identified by Freiherr Von Soden, "Die Schriften
      des Neuen Testaments in ihrer altesten erreichbaren Textgestalt"
      (Gottingen: Vandenhoeck und Ruprecht, 1911) and Herman C. Hoskier,
      "Concerning the Text of the Apocalypse" (London: Bernard Quaritch,
      1929).  This technique of Byzantine identification and weighting,
      was utilized by Hodges and Farsted in "The Greek New Testament
      according to the Majority Text" (Nashville: Thomas Nelson, 1982;
      1985). It was subsequently utilized by Robinson and Pierpont,
      resulting in 99.75 percent agreement between the two texts.

      The Byzantine Majority text is closely identified with the Textus
      Receptus editions, and well it should with greater than 98%
      agreement. As Maurice Robinson pointed out in his edition of the
      Byzantine Majority: "George Ricker Berry correctly noted that 'in
      the main they are one and the same; and [any] of them may be
      referred to as the Textus Receptus' (George Ricker Berry, ed.,
      _The Interlinear Literal Translation of the Greek New Testament_
      [New York: Hinds & Noble, 1897], p.ii).

  a= Alexandrian

      The differences are those identified by United Bible Society 3rd
      ed., and utilized by modern translations such as NIV and NASB.
      While these variants come from mss. with less textual evidence
      than the Byzantine Majority, many of the differences are exactly
      the same as those identified by the Byzantine Majority and
      Scrivner.  The percentage of variants are quite small and occur
      mainly in word placement, and spelling.  Many of the variations
      identified are omitted or bracketed words, which is not surprising
      due to a significantly smaller base of text from this stream of
      transmission.


                        WHERE TO FIND THIS TEXT

The latest, most up-to-date and maintained copy of these files can
be found on:

    The Bible Foundation web site, http://www.bf.org

Or by contacting:

    Mark Fuller
    1129 East Loyola Drive
    Tempe, Arizona, 85282
    602-829-8542
